## First steps into Python

Hi, my name is Filip, and I'm a data scientist at DataCamp. Welcome to the _Introduction to Python for Data Science_ course. It's a long name, I know, but that's to stress something: this course is not just another tutorial to get you up to speed with Python. Instead, this course focuses on Python specifically for data science. By the end of this course, you'll know about the basic data structures in Python and cool features to start your very own analysis. 

You will learn Python for Data Science through video lessons, like this one, that are followed by interactive exercises. You get your own Python session where you can experiment and try to come up with the correct code to solve the challenge. You're learning by doing, while receiving personal and instant feedback on your work.

Python is originally conceived by Guido Van Rossum, a Dutch programmer and big fan of Monty Python's flying circus, hence the name. What started as a hobby project, soon became a general purpose programming language. Nowadays, Python can be used to build practically any piece of software you can think of. It's very easy to build packages in Python, which is code that you can share with other people to solve specific problems. Suppose you want to make some fancy visualizations of your company's sales? There's a package for that. Or what about connecting to a database to analyze sensor measurements? There's also a package for that. Throughout time, more and more of these package specifically built for data science have been developed.

Now that you're all eyes and ears for Python, let's start experimenting. I'll start with the Python shell, a place where you can simply type Python code and immediately see the results. In DataCamp's exercise interface, this shell can be found here. Let's start off simply, by simply typing 4 + 5 and hitting Enter. Python interprets what you typed and prints the result of your calculation, 9. What about mutliplying 1.3 and 6? The shell can handle it. To print a number, you can simply type it and hit Enter, like here. You can also use the print function like this. The Python shell we use here is not actually the original one; we're using IPython, short for Interactive Python. It adds functionality if you're interactively working with Python, like we're doing here, manually typing stuff and checking out the result. Think of it as Python on steroids.

Apart from interactively working with Python, you can also have Python run so called python scripts. These python scripts are simply text files with the dot py extension, that contain simple Python expressions like the ones I showed you before. 

## Variables and their types
